# Build Your Character

In the world of Plore, the fates of travellers is intertwined. If you wish to survive you will best remember to work together and prop each others capabilities up, lest you shall all perish alone. Create your characters together such that their stories and personalities will tend to work together rather then clash.

Characters consist of 3 core descriptors:
1. Something you know
	- Disciplines
	- Spells & Abilities
2. Something you are
   - Vices
	- Race
	- Attributes
3. Something you have
	- Gear

This page will give you a simple sample character creation example to show step by step how a character is made, while the following pages explain in detail each step of the character creation process.

#### Sample Character Creation

### Disciplines and Vices

First you should select 1 or 2 disciplines your character has undertaken in their life. Disciplines will give you advantages when rolling for checks that could reasonable fall under ypur chosen disciplines. Vices however will do the opposite, they will cause increased difficulty accomplishing checks related to them. Outside of these mechanics your should keep in mind to play ypur chracter in a way that would make sense goven these choices. Characters should be tempting for their characters rather then just avoiding them for the sake of avoiding the disadvantage it imposes.

### Stat distribution

You have 6 points to spend in each suit of skills for an initial total of 24 points however you like with the following restrictions:

1. You may not allot more then 5 points into a any stat
2. You may not allot less then 1 point into any stat
 
Once these points are alloted you have 3 more points to spend in any way you see fit such that they still follow the above 2 restrictions resulting in a final total of 27 points.

<!--Once you have a character in mind you can begin building their stats. You have 6 points to spend in each suit of skills to spend however you like. this is a total of 12 points(3 for diamonds, 3 for hearts, etc). Once this is done you have 2 more points you can spend in such a way they the 2 points are not spent on the same suit of skills.-->

Here is an example of a stat distribution. 6 points are assigned to each suit, and then 3 more points are added afterwords to the spades suit.

| Diamonds          | Value |
|-------------------|-------|
| Endurance         | 1     |
| Strength          | 3     |
| Precision         | 2     |
| **Total(Health)** | **6** |


| Clubs        | Value |
|--------------|-------|
| Endurance    | 2     |
| Strength     | 2     |
| Precision    | 2     |
| **Total(Blood)** | **6**     |


| Hearts                  | Value |
|-------------------------|-------|
| Presence                | 1     |
| Deception               | 4     |
| Empathy                 | 1     |
| **Total(Presentation)** | **6** |


| Spades            | Value |
|-------------------|-------|
| Analytics         | 5     |
| Practical         | 2     |
| Creativity        | 2     |
| **Total(Memory)** | **9** |


<!-- As our total Diamonds value is 3, we just multiply this by 5 to get a max health of 15. -->

#### Level Up

Character attributes do not change when characters level up. Instead character gain other benefits on level up.

<!-- #### Sample Level Up -->

<!-- Whenever a character levels up, the player gets 2 points that they can place into any stats. Like when you spent the 2 points on character creation these points must spent on two skills from different suits. -->
