# Build Your Character

Players get 3 points to spend for each Suit Stat(12 total points). Then you may spent 2 more points, the 2 points can NOT both be spent in the same group. 

Once the points have been alloted, health can be determined. Max health is equal to your Diamonds total times five. 

#### Sample Character Creation

### Professions and Vices

First you should select 1 or 2 professions your character has undertaken in their life. Professions will give you advantages when rolling for checks that could reasonable fall under ypur chosen professions. Vices however will do the opposite, they will cause increased difficulty accomplishing checks related to them. Outside of these mechanics your should keep in mind to play ypur chracter in a way that would make sense goven these choices. Characters should be tempting for their characters rather then just avoiding them for the sake of avoiding the disadvantage it imposes.

### Stat distribution

Once you have a character in mind you can begin building their stats. You have 3 points to spend in each suit of skills to spend however you like. this is a total of 12 points(3 for diamonds, 3 for hearts, etc). Once this is done you have 2 more points you can spend in such a way they the 2 points are not spent on the same suit of skills.

Here is an example of a starting stat distribution.

| Diamonds  | Value |
|-----------|-------|
| Endurance | 0     |
| Strength  | 2     |
| Precision | 1     |
| Total     | 3     |


| Clubs     | Value |
|-----------|-------|
| Endurance | 1     |
| Strength  | 1     |
| Precision | 1     |
| Total     | 3     |
  
  
| Hearts    | Value |
|-----------|-------|
| Presence  | 1     |
| Deception | 2     |
| Empathy   | 1     |
| Total     | 4     |
  
  
| Spades     | Value |
|------------|-------|
| Analytics  | 3     |
| Practical  | 0     |
| Creativity | 1     |
| Total      | 4     |


As our total Diamonds value is 3, we just multiply this by 5 to get a max health of 15.

#### Sample Level Up

Whenever a character levels up, the player gets 2 points that they can place into any stats. Like when you spent the 2 points on character creation these points must spent on two skills from different suits.
