# Resolving Checks
When the player attempts to do an action and the GM has determined it is not trivial(e.g failure is possible and not insignificant) the GM should give the player a check which will determine the fate of their action.

Here is an explanation of each step of a check.

---

### 1. Action Request
Player asks to do an action or ability, naming a relevant discipline and/or object if applicable which would assist them(players are **NOT** to state they are 'using' or 'intending to use' a stat)

### 2. Determine Difficulties and Advantages
The base point difficulty of a check is 5. Then a GM adds points for each 'hurdle' or two points if the hurdle is especially difficult. For example if you had to swing a weapon in a tight corridor(+1 difficulty) against a shielded enemy(+2 difficulty) then the check would have a +3 difficulty totalling to 8.

However a player will likewise have advantages which will help then succeed. A character may have a discipline or object which is relevant to the check being made at hand. When using an object then the GM will choose to give either a +1 advantage or if the object is particularly effective in this situation may give a +2 advantage instead. Disciplines instead give an advantage equal to the stat relevant to the check being made. Continuing upon the example above the character may be a solider(+3 advantage as they have 3 strength) and using a spear which is effective in corridors(+1 advantage)

### 3. Resolve the Check
The player resolves the check by drawing or playing a card from their fate deck. If the card is equal or higher then the player's character has succeeded in the check.

