# Fate Deck

The fate deck is a single playing card deck which is used by all the players of the game to build their respective deck. The cards from this deck are used by players to do actions or abilities of their characters. The players individual decks are rebuilt every once in a while.[TODO: how often?]

## Building the Fate Decks

The GM separates the face cards from the fate deck(kings, queens, jacks and aces). These face cards are then shuffled and one is dealt out to each player. The remaining numbered cards are then selected according to each players respective character's rules for selecting fate cards. Once selected the remaining numbered cards are shuffled and dealt out evenly among the players. Finally any relevant character abilities for further modifying the player Fate Decks are put into play. Once this is done the player Fate Decks are ready for play.

-- new idea --

- Whenever the players long rest, reset all cards into a single deck. Each player pick 5 cards from the deck, then distribute the remaining cards randomly. Players have X amount of cards in their hand and draw more whenever it goes below that limit. Players get some kind of punishment/detriment for having an empty deck(this is the in game mechanic representing exaustion)

- When players use an action or ability they roll a d10. The resulting roll value can be used in place of a card. The suit of the roll depends on the class of the roller. Some classes can use an extra d4 which they can use the result of the roll to add or subtract any of their cards or rolls once that action.

