# Weapons

Weapons are a special item type which grant character abilities that can be used when the weapon is wielded. Weapons also have various properties which affect your character in combat. Some of these are listed below. When the attack is possible to make, only ranged weapons, improvised weapons, or weapon attacks that specify require a check to see if the attack hits. Otherwise the weapon will automatically hit your target.

## Improvised Weapons
Any item, including items already classified as a weapon, can make an improvised weapon attack. Improvised weapon attacks use either your strength or your precision to determine how much damage they deal, depending on how the weapon would be used.  Improvised weapons must also pass a check in order to determine if the attack lands. The GM may also impose other traits onto the improvised weapon depending on what weapon is being used, for example a character using a chair to attack might only have one or two attacks before the chair falls apart(TODO: get a better example).

#### Unarmed Punches and Kicks
Punches and kicks are considered improvised weapons where the player may choose to use their strength or precision. Punches and kicks deal fatigue damage, meaning they are non-lethal.

## Ranged Attacks
Any ranged weapon attack requires a check to determine if the attack lands. The further the attack, the harder the check should be, likewise if the enemy is too close the attack should also have a disadvantage.

## Casting Weapons
Some weapons allow you to cast magic.
